Matrix multiplication is really useful,
since you can pack a lot of computation
into just one matrix
multiplication operation.
But you should be careful
of how you use them.
In this video, I wanna tell you about
a few properties of matrix multiplication.
When working with just real numbers or
when working with scalars,
multiplication is commutative.
And what I mean by that is
that if you take 3 times 5,
that is equal to 5 times 3.
And the ordering of this
multiplication doesn't matter.
And this is called
the commutative property
of multiplication of real numbers.
It turns out this property,
they can reverse the order in
which you multiply things.
This is not true for
matrix multiplication.
So concretely, if A and B are matrices.
Then in general,
A times B is not equal to B times A.
So, just be careful of that.
Its not okay to arbitrarily reverse
the order in which you multiply matrices.
Matrix multiplication in not commutative,
is the fancy way of saying it.
As a concrete example,
here are two matrices.
This matrix 1 1 0 0 times 0 0 2 0 and
if you multiply these two matrices
you get this result on the right.
Now let's swap around the order
of these two matrices.
So I'm gonna take this two matrices and
just reverse them.
It turns out if you multiply
these two matrices,
you get the second answer on the right.
And well clearly, right, these two
matrices are not equal to each other.
So, in fact, in general if you have
a matrix operation like A times B,
if A is an m by n matrix,
and B is an n by m matrix,
just as an example.
Then, it turns out that
the matrix A times B,
right, is going to be an m by m matrix.
Whereas the matrix B times A is
going to be an n by n matrix.
So the dimensions don't even match, right?
So if A x B and
B x A may not even be the same dimension.
In the example on the left,
I have all two by two matrices.
So the dimensions were the same, but
in general, reversing the order of
the matrices can even change
the dimension of the outcome.
So, matrix multiplication
is not commutative.
Here's the next property
I want to talk about.
So, when talking about real numbers or
scalars, let's say I have 3 x 5 x 2.
I can either multiply 5 x 2 first.
Then I can compute this as 3 x 10.
Or, I can multiply 3 x 5 first,
and I can compute this as 15 x 2.
And both of these give you
the same answer, right?
Both of these is equal to 30.
So it doesn't matter whether
I multiply 5 x 2 first or
whether I multiply 3 x 5 first,
because sort of,
well, 3 x (5 x 2) = (3 x 5) x 2.
And this is called the associative
property of real number multiplication.
It turns out that matrix
multiplication is associative.
So concretely, let's say I have
a product of three matrices A x B x C.
Then, I can compute this
either as A x (B x C) or
I can computer this as (A x B) x C,
and these will actually
give me the same answer.
I'm not gonna prove this but
you can just take my word for it I guess.
So just be clear,
what I mean by these two cases.
Let's look at the first one, right.
This first case.
What I mean by that is if you
actually wanna compute A x B x C.
What you can do is you
can first compute B x C.
So that D = B x C then compute A x D.
And so
this here is really computing A x B x C.
Or, for this second case,
you can compute this as,
you can set E = A x B,
then compute E times C.
And this is then the same as A x B x C,
and it turns out that
both of these options will give you this
guarantee to give you the same answer.
And so we say that matrix multiplication
thus enjoy the associative property.
Okay?
And don't worry about the terminology
associative and commutative.
That's what it's called, but I'm not
really going to use this terminology later
in this class, so
don't worry about memorizing those terms.
Finally, I want to tell you
about the Identity Matrix,
which is a special matrix.
So let's again make the analogy
to what we know of real numbers.
When dealing with real numbers or
scalar numbers, the number 1,
you can think of it as
the identity of multiplication.
And what I mean by that is that for
any number z, 1 x z = z x 1.
And that's just equal to the number z for
any real number z.
So 1 is the identity operation and
so it satisfies this equation.
So it turns out,
that this in the space of matrices there's
an identity matrix as well and
it's usually denoted I or
sometimes we write it as I of n x n if we
want to make it explicit to dimensions.
So I subscript n x n is
the n x n identity matrix.
And so that's a different identity
matrix for each dimension n.
And here are few examples.
Here's the 2 x 2 identity matrix,
here's the 3 x 3 identity matrix,
here's the 4 x 4 matrix.
So the identity matrix has the property
that it has ones along the diagonals.
All right, and so on.
And 0 everywhere else.
And so, by the way, the 1 x 1
identity matrix is just a number 1,
and so the 1 x 1 matrix with just 1 in it.
So it's not a very
interesting identity matrix.
And informally, when I or
others are being sloppy,
very often we'll write the identity
matrices in fine notation.
We'll draw square brackets, just write
one one one dot dot dot dot one, and
then we'll maybe somewhat sloppily
write a bunch of zeros there.
And these zeroes on the,
this big zero and this big zero,
that's meant to denote that this matrix is
zero everywhere except for the diagonal.
So this is just how I might swap
you the right D identity matrix.
And it turns out that the identity
matrix has its property that for
any matrix A, A times identity
equals I times A equals A so
that's a lot like this
equation that we have up here.
Right?
So 1 times z equals z
times 1 equals z itself.
So I times A equals A times I equals A.
Just to make sure we have
the dimensions right.
So if A is an m by n matrix,
then this identity matrix here,
that's an n by n identity matrix.
And if is and by then,
then this identity matrix, right?
For matrix multiplication to make sense,
that has to be an m by m matrix.
Because this m has the match up that m,
and in either case,
the outcome of this process is you get
back the matrix A which is m by n.
So whenever we write
the identity matrix I, you know,
very often the dimension Mention, right,
will be implicit from the content.
So these two I's, they're actually
different dimension matrices.
One may be n by n, the other is n by m.
But when we want to make the dimension
of the matrix explicit, then
sometimes we'll write to this I subscript
n by n, kind of like we had up here.
But very often,
the dimension will be implicit.
Finally, I just wanna
point out that earlier
I said that AB is not,
in general, equal to BA.
Right?
For most matrices A and
B, this is not true.
But when B is the identity matrix,
this does hold true,
that A times the identity matrix
does indeed equal to identity
times A is just that you know this is not
true for other matrices B in general.
So, that's it for the properties
of matrix multiplication and
special matrices like the identity
matrix I want to tell you about.
In the next and
final video on our linear algebra review,
I'm going to quickly tell you about
a couple of special matrix operations and
after that everything you need to know
about linear algebra for this class.